In this lecture we will learn about blend modes and see SS CSSA gives us access to the background blend
mode property that we can use to blend two or more images together in different ways to see examples
of using these blend modes.
Let's first add a div to our webpage.
Next we will add an opening style tag and start writing our style code.
We will add a selector that will Star-Lord div and give it a height and width of 500 pixels.
We will then add the background image property and give it a value of the paths to the image that we
want to blend.
Let's specify our star PNB image then put a comma and then specify our blue JPEG image by default.
Any images that we specify will have a background repeat value of repeat.
If we don't want our images to repeat we can add a value of no repeat for the background repeat property
then we will add the background blend mode property in order to specify the blend mode that our two
images will be blended together with the multiply blend mode multiplies one image with another image
resulting in a darker image.
Let's use the background blend mode properly and give it a value of multiply.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see the two images were blended into a darker image.
Let's jump back to the editor.
The screen blend mode is the opposite of the multiply blend mode and results in a brighter image.
Let's change the blend mode to screen and then run our code in the browser.
As you can see the two images were blended together into a lighter image.
Let's jump back to the editor.
The overlay blend mode combines the previous two blend modes multiply in screen resulting in an image
that is lighter in some places and darker in other places.
We will change the blend mode to overlay and then go to the web browser and run our code as you can
see some parts of the image are darker and others are lighter.
Let's jump back to the editor Dorkin compares the two images and selects the darker pixel in each case
resulting in a darkened image.
Let's use the Darkon blend mode.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our two images were combined together
into a darker image.
Let's jump back to the editor
liten does the opposite and for each pixel selects the lighter of the pixels in the images being blended.
Let's change the blend mode to lighten and then go to the web browser and run our code as you can see
the two images were combined into a lighter image.
Let's jump back to the editor color dodge decreases the contrast between the base color and blend color.
Making the base color brighter.
Let's change the code to use the color dodge blend mode and then go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see the result is an image with a brighter base color.
Let's jump back to the editor color burn on the other hand increases the contrast between the base color
and blend color to darken the base color.
We use the color burned blend mode and run our code in the web browser.
As you can see the base color has darkened.
In fact our star image seems nearly blended completely into the blue image.
But if you look very closely you can see the star inside of the image.
Let's jump back to the editor hard light is a blend mode that helps to add shadows to an image.
Let's change the blend mode the hard light and then run our code to see the result.
Then we will go back to the editor soft light is useful for adding diffuse light to an image.
We really use a soft light blend mode and then run our code see the result.
Then we will jump back to the editor and look at another example different takes the difference in brightness
between the base color and blonde color.
Let's use the difference blend mode and then run our code in the browser then we will jump back to the
editor exclusionist similar to different but lower in contrast let's use the exclusion blend mode and
then run our code in the browser then we will jump back to the editor who takes the Blen colors hue
and combines that with the saturation of the base color we will use the hue blend mode and then run
our code in the browser as you can see the store in the middle has turned a brownish color as a result
of the blending.
Let's jump back to the editor
saturation combines the hue of the base color with the saturation of the blonde color.
We will use the saturation blend mode and then go to the web browser and run our code.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
The color blend mode is useful for color and monochromatic images.
Let's use the color blends mode and run our code to see the result.
Then we will go back to the editor luminously creates an effect opposite of the color blend mode.
We will change the blend mode we are using the luminously and then run our code to see the result.
Then we will jump back to the editor a blend mode of normal resets the blend mode.
Let's change the blend mode to normal and then run our code in the browser.
The result is the two images blended together without any blending of fact.
Visually it looks like one image was placed directly on top of the other and the next lecture we will
look at a recap of what we learned in this section of the course.